---
layout: post
title:  "The Hejeria Incident"
date:   2019-02-18 18:07:01 -0600
categories: warhammer 40k grimdark campaign log ordo ineptus
permalink: /warhammer/ordo-ineptus/the-hejeria-incident
description: "Chaos holds nothing sacred, not even grenades."
---

**REPORT DATE:** 3 634 935.M41

**ISSUING AUTHORITY:** Inquisitor Farnsworth, Ordo Hereticus

**AFFECTED WORLD:** HEJERIA, CLASS ETA

After the events on Manufactora, Ordo Ineptus began sifting through the dataslates and intelligence collected from the Mago's office.
After two days, the only clue they found was an increase in the number of slaves being requisitioned from a neighboring planet, Hejeria.
According to records held by the Administratum, these souls, selected in the Emperor's holy name, were to be turned into servitors.
Production was scheduled to skyrocket over the last 3 months, but the investigation revealed no increase in output.

To this end, the crew traveled to Hejeria, losing only two days in the warp, and landed in Hive Haarken on the 10th level's ship yard.
The crew didn't notice anything out of the ordinary, so they began to look for a ship on the slave requisition forms: the Pequod and her captain Ahab.
Ishmael located the ship within moments, and deferred first contact to Tony.
Talking to the captain, Tony was able to determine that Ahab had been delivering the slaves to a representative of Magos Trynbilt on Hejeria.
When pressed, Ahab admitted it was unusual to hand the trade off to a third party, but the contact had the correct paperwork for the Imperium.
Combined with the fact it saved on the Pequod's fuel cost, he didn't press the matter.

Additionally, he said that every requisition form was submitted to and approved by the local Administratum office, so everything appeared legitimate.
With this in mind, the group spent 6 hours traveling up to the Administratum office, and thanks to Gob's flattery, they were able to get a copy of the requisition form for the next slave shipment.
The requisition form was nearly twenty feet long and was mostly nonsense to the predominantly illiterate squad; however, they were able to determine that the exchange would go down on the 4th level in a rarely used shipyard.

The gang found a room for the night in the middle of the hive, and then went down to check out the shipyard.
As expected, it was mostly abandoned outside of the poor people scavenging for things to sell. The group talked to one of these scavengers and learned the ships normally use the middle two landing pads and that there were a new group of people around calling themselves "The Truth" . He said they seemed mostly harmless but he also didn't get too close to them as they still seemed a bit nutty.
After scoping out the area for a while the group decided to buy a tracking device to see where the shuttle was going after it picked up the slaves. They luckily found a kind man running a second-hand store nearby who sold it to them at a fair price, but was unable to help the group buy any demolition charges.

   The next day the group returned early in the morning and hid among the abandoned crates until two shuttles landed on the nearby landing pads.
Tony waited patiently with Ishmael at his side until the shuttle the slaves had been loaded onto was taking off. He lined up a shot using the magnet on his grappling hook to attach the tracker to the ship and was able to land his shot successfully. Unfortunately, when Tony tried to pull the magnet off the tracker, he lost his footing and was dragged towards the edge of the hive. Ishmael quickly drew his knife and attempted to cut the line to save him, but Tony's leg got in the way and got a nasty gash instead. Tony finally let go of the grappling hook before he was dragged over the edge, and Jakes was able to use his mastery of the warp to knit his flesh back together. After a few apologies were made the gang used to tracked to find the shuttle on the second level of the hive in an abandoned warehouse district.  
Ishmael used his magnoculars to see a group of people gain entrance to a warehouse using a strange pendant they carried, and was able to use the thermal vision settings to determine there were a large # of heat sources in the warehouse. Gob suggested they go and get a few of those pendants for themselves to sneak in, and after driving down the road a ways the group came across a man with that same pendant around his neck who invited them to attend a church service that would enlighten them to the truth.
The four of them got to the church and were greeted by a nice man at the door who welcomed them to the church of the Truth. Inside were a number of people in tattered clothes listening to a sermon from a man standing at a strange altar that had a man strapped to the top of it. As the group made their way inside the church, they heard him speak about how he was enlightened by the truth of reality, how life was nothing but suffering and to truly understand life people needed to experience the worst suffering possible. He also said that soon the planet would learn the truth, and that the teachings of the Traveler would spread through the world like a wildfire before killing the man on the altar and cutting out his heart.
While the rest of the people in the church took the opportunity to go up and receive a blessing, the gang spread out and then the shooting began. The two men at the front of the church began throwing out fireballs while the group starting to pelt them with small arms fire. Ishmael used a grenade to blow up a majority of the cultists, and Tony was able to wing the man who had been giving the sermon. When the fire died down Ishmael began to interrogate the strange man, who told him that the truth would be revealed to the world and the Traveler would continue to speak the truth. His last words were "You will be able to see the truth a little more quickly" which came out of his mouth as he drew his pistol and shot at Ishmael who managed to dodge the shot and knock the gun from his hand. Not liking this much, Ishmael got out his brass knuckles and began to take his stress out on the man until his head was just a lump of broken bones and viscera.
While this was going on Jakes used his powers to rip the recent memories from one of the Psykers, learning that he had been a dormant psyker until a red giant touched him and expanded his mind. The group then grabbed the pendants they needed, used the rags from the cultists to create disguises, and went back to the warehouse where they were given entry with no questions asked.
Inside the warehouse the group found an enormous open space filled with crates labeled "Meat Substitute- human grade" and large pens filled with hundreds of people with penal legion collars around their necks. Ishmael also noticed that the ladders up to the second floor all had huge rends in them, as if something very heavy had climbed up them and caused them to bend out of shape.
Tony took the initiative and spoke to the guard about who to ask for their next orders, and were told the Traveler was upstairs and could help them. The team went upstairs and spoke to the guard at the door who told them to wait a moment for the Traveler to speak to them. Roughly one moment later a giant comes out from the door, 3 meters tall covered in red spiked power armor that is covered in strange symbols that make their eyes itch. Jakes faints, Gob begins crying and scratching at his face, Tony is scared but otherwise unphased, and Ishmael can't bring himself to look at the Giant. The traveler tells the group that they should begin collecting more sacrifices before the ceremony begins and tells them to be on their way. Ishmael and Tony grab the other two and carry them away, eventually they regain their senses and all make it back outside and to the car where they have a small mental breakdown
They decided to call this in immediately, went to the Lexicanum, and Jakes sent a message out to the inquisitor with their findings (and killing all the astropaths he was linked to in the process). The next day the group receives a message from the inquisitor telling them backup is on the way, and a few hours later a strike team picks them up from the 10th floor spaceport and they head back to the warehouse.
They used their 'credentials' to enter the warehouse again, and when the doorman greeted them Gob and Ishmael ripped the guy in half with silenced gunfire. The team spread out, Jakes and Tony taking the high ground while Ishmael and Gob went right. Tony and Jakes began to line their sites up on the Traveler...And then the 'elite' strike squad immediately alerted the entire warehouse of their location by knocking over a crate while they were getting into position.
Gunfire immediately began ripping out in the warehouse, the traveler jumped down from the second floor and began stoically walking towards the gunfire until a few headshots from Tony and Jakes convinced him he needed some cover and he began to run. In each holding pen a psyker began to throw out fireballs, attempting to kill as many sacrifices as they could in an attempt to start the ritual early. The cultists traded fire with the strike team while Ishmael flanked on the right, with one soldier and a cultist having a long drawn out duel.
Eventually the cultists made it to melee range and began to wail on the soldiers, but they held firm. many of the soldiers giving back twice as much as they received. And then the Traveler arrived in the melee, immediately one of the soldiers deflected a blow from his roaring chainsword only to be bisected a moment later. The soldiers held their ground, attempting to fight back while those farther away peppered the Chaos Space Marine with lasfire. Gob eventually saw an opportunity to throw a fire bomb at the marine and lit him on fire, doing some damage but the marine fought on.

While this was going on Tony, Jakes, and a rather strong slave managed to shoot the psykers (and punch in the slaves case) until they were put down.
After a few moment the Marine and a cultist had killed the last of the strike squad and turned their sites on Jakes. Jakes and Tony made a last-ditch effort to fell the giant, and if it weren't for the Space Marines incredible speed they would have succeeded. The Traveler lined up a shot with his bolt pistol and fired at Tony, the boltshell ripping Tony in half and causing his grenades to explode. Jakes died in the ensuing explosion, the fireball returning both of their bodies to the Emporer.
The Traveler then turned his attention to Gob, who began blasting at him with automatic fire while the flames that engulfed the space marine kept burning him alive. The Traveler charged Gob, attempting to bisect him but Gob was able to deflect it and put a few more shots out. One of these bullets ripped a fuel cable on the armor, causing the heat from the fire to grow even hotter and finally kill the horrible marine. Ishmael turned around the corner and killed the last cultist with a hail of automatic fire. The gunfire died out, and they were the last free men alive in the warehouse.
